CS Project Prospectus

Brett Raible
Maike Keune
Maren Sandner
Nicholas Paquette

Description of the project idea:
Our general idea is a single player RPG in the style of old Final Fantasy games.
The game revolves around a few heroes (2-4) entering dungeons, fulfilling quests, defeating monsters in a round-based combat system, and saving the world.
The player controls one hero exploring the world and all party members in combat.

RPGs have been an ever-growing part of the gaming community for many years.
These games allow the player to take control of a character (or characters) in a fictional setting and play through that character’s story.
From humble beginnings, several RPG franchises have become huge names in gaming, including Nintendo’s Pokemon, Bethesda’s Fallout and The Elder Scrolls, and Square Enix’s Final Fantasy series. 

Product backlog:
This RPG will feature similar mechanics to that of the old Final Fantasy games, including health, experience and leveling, usable items, shops for buying said items, file saving, magic, dungeons, randomly encountered enemies, bosses, 2-D graphics, and money.

Technical innovation:
One of the two areas of technical innovation we are going to use on this project is Java Spring.
No member of the group has any experience with this framework.
The central feature of the Spring framework is the inversion of the control-container (ioc), which means that the controller classes can define which fields they need instead of receiving them as parameters.
This sort of problem is usually solved via unsafe patterns (eg.: singleton pattern).
The Spring framework helps to structure the application context, while staying thread-safe.

The other area of innovation we will employ is randomly-generated worlds.
Our group will produce an algorithm for creating a world randomly every time a new game or level starts without inhibiting the player from finishing the game.
There will be a large world map that will contain the main geography of the world including various types of land, cities and towns, dungeons, and water masses. 
Dungeons will have their own smaller randomly generated maps.

Principles from the Code of Ethics:
1.01. Accept full responsibility for their own work.
2.04. Ensure that any document upon which they rely has been approved, when required, by someone authorized to approve it.
3.01. Strive for high quality, acceptable cost and a reasonable schedule, ensuring significant tradeoffs are clear to and accepted by the employer and the client, and are available for consideration by the user and the public.
4.05. Disclose to all concerned parties those conflicts of interest that cannot reasonably be avoided or escaped.
7.03. Credit fully the work of others and refrain from taking undue credit.
7.08. In situations outside of their own areas of competence, call upon the opinions of other professionals who have competence in that area.
8.01. Further their knowledge of developments in the analysis, specification, design, development, maintenance and testing of software and related documents, together with the management of the development process.
8.03. Improve their ability to produce accurate, informative, and well-written documentation.
